To Robert Ross
MS. Clark

[Circa 1 March 1899]
Gland, Canton Vaud, Switzerland

My dear Robbie, Thanks for your charming letter, which I found waiting for me here on my arrival from Genoa yesterday.
It was a great pleasure writing your name on the page of dedication. I only wish it was a more wonderful work of art-of higher seriousness of intent- but it has some amusing things in it, and I think the tone and temper of the whole thing bright and happy.
I went to Genoa to see Constance's grave. It is very pretty - a marble cross with dark ivy-leaves inlaid in a good pattern. The cemetery is a garden at the foot of the lovely hills that climb into the mountains that girdle Genoa. It was very tragic seeing her name carved on a tomb - her surname, my name, not mentioned of course - just "Constance Mary, daughter of Horace Lloyd, Q.C" and a verse from Revelations. I brought some flowers. I was deeply affected - with a sense, also, of the uselessness of all regrets. Nothing could have been otherwise, and Life is a very terrible thing.
This is a pretty house on the Lake. We look over to the snows and hills of Savoy. Geneva is half an hour by rail. You are to come whenever you like. April is lovely here, I believe, and flaunts in flowers.
There is an Italian cook, also the lad Eolo, who waits at table. His father told Mellor at Spezia that he was christened Eolo because he was born on a night on which there was a dreadful wind. I think it is rather nice to have thought of such a name. An English peasant would probably have said "We called him John, sir, because we were getting in the hay at the time."
There is no such truth at all in Sedger's advertisement, and I am very angry about it. It is quite monstrous. My only chance is a play produced anonymously. Otherwise the First Night would be a honor, and people would find meanings in every phrase.
I am going to try a bicycle. I have never forgotten the lesson you so kindly gave me: even my leg remembers it.

Do write again soon. Have I forgotten anyone to whom I should send a copy ? Ever yours

Oscar
